# timeseries-cloud
#Time series model for resource prediction on cloud computing facilty. 



# Dataset
The dataset that has been explored has been generated by simulations on a Docker environment.Seventeen such
requirements are monitored herein. Data is logged every ten seconds. The dataset
generated here has resource values for seven days. Seven days of data is logged
because most of the environments used by the cloud computing facilities- the
intended audience- has a very small window where in they have to prepare for
managing resources.


# Methdology

Prediction models explored were VAR (Vector Autoregression) and VARMA (Vector
Autoregression Moving-Average). VAR and VARMA models were initially explored
on the docker-data which consists of 17 different fields.

# Techniques adopted on Docker data
The predictions are performed on the CPU usage field. Various data pre-processing
techniques were applied to obtain more accurate prediction. Various differencing
techniques were applied upon to gain knowledge about the order of time series. As
the data set size was huge and few variables lacked enough variance, computation
of the Cholesky decomposition resulted in the formation of a non invertible matrix. To
deal with this feature selection techniques were performed. All the fields with
variance less than 0.8 were eliminated. To further eliminate variables more
univariate statistical tests were performed. The test chosen by us was chi-square
test using which fourteen best performing features were selected. Hurst exponent
was calculated to gain knowledge about the long range dependence on the series.
The number of lags in the VAR models was varied and the results were compared to
identify the best fit for the time series.

# Conclusion:
Presence of Hurst coefficient of 0.61 indicated mild long-range dependency. Data appears to
model itself after a random walk and we would like to argue that this indicates the
presence of multiplicative relations in it.
